# Bellabeat

###Introduction 
This case study is the final project in the Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate course. In the case study, I’ll be analyzing a public dataset provided by the course as if I were working with the Marketing and Product departments as a data analyst at the health and wellness company Bellabeat.


####About Bellabeat 
Bellabeat is a wellness company based in San Francisco, California that develops smart technology for women. Their mission is to empower women by providing them with the data to discover themselves.

Bellabeat products are available through a growing number of online retailers in addition to their own e-commerce channel on their website.


#### Method Approach
In this project, I will use 6 steps to ensure its completion: 
1. Ask 
2. Prepare 
3. Process 
4. Analyze 
5. Share 
6. Act 

## Phase 1: Ask 
# 1.1 Business Task: 
Identify some trends in how consumers use the Bellabeat devices and how these trends can help improve new opportunities growth for Bellabeat as well as marketing strategy.
Analyze smart device user data to gain insight into how consumers are using their non-Bellabeat smart devices (in this case, FitBit), and apply these insights to comparable Bellabeat products such as the Bellabeat Leaf.

# 1.2 Key Stakeholders
Urška Sršen – Bellabeat’s cofounder and Chief Creative Officer
Sando Mur – Mathematician and Bellabeat’s cofounder
Bellabeat’s marketing analytics team – a team of data analytics

## Phase 2: Prepare 

# 2.1 Dataset Used
In this project, I will be using datasets from FitBit Fitness Tracker Data, which has been published by Möbius in Kaggle under the CC0: Public Domain Creative Common License.

# 2.2 Dataset Summary 
I downloaded zip files provided, then extracted to csv files. There are 18 datasets, but I only used 6 datasets for this study. Each document represents different quantitative data tracked by Fitbit.

The dataset for this case study, FitBit Fitness Tracker Data, was provided by Google through the data science website Kaggle. The dataset was originally generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk. The survey spanned a 30-day period starting April 12th, 2016 to May 12th, 2016.

The three tables I analyzed from this dataset are dailyActivity_merged, sleepDay_merged, and weightLogInfo_merged, renamed DailyActivity, SleepLog, and WeightLog, respectively.

# 2.3 Dataset Limitations and Integrity 
I used excel to take a glimpse of the data. The data collected was only during a 31-day period (04-12-2016 to 05-12-2016), so it was quite outdated as fitness trackers matured a lot since then. No demographic information (gender, location, age) collected makes the data bias even higher.Most likely, the data isn’t representative of all FitBit users. Only 33 people took part in the survey. The largest table in the dataset, ‘dailyActivity_merged’, for example, contains 15 columns—almost half as many attributes as participants.
Roughly a quarter of the participants didn’t record any sleep data. Three quarters of participants didn’t record weight data.
The data is old. Both FitBit and Bellabeat have come out with new products and features since 2016. Smart device usage, like the devices themselves, has likely changed since then.
The data comes from a third-party source with no way to examine credibility or potential biases.
Participants weren’t asked to wear/use their FitBits for the entirety of the 30-day period, so some records are missing.

## Phase 3: Process
To begin processing the data, I used SQL in BigQuery as one of the data analytics tools, to import the dataset, do the process of cleaning and organizing. The cleaning process included adjusting data type formats, removing duplicates and null data. I extracted the clean data to new csv and stored it. I documented the whole process of cleaning.

# 3.1 Importing Datasets
# 3.2 Importing Datasets
# 3.3 Comparing Datasets 
# 3.4 Checking Start-End Date and Id 
# 3.5 Cleaning Data 
# 3.5.1 Find Duplicates 
# 3.5.2 Find Unsuitable Data 

## Phase 4: Analyze
After cleaning the data, 3-clean dataset will be used to do the analysis process. In this process, I organized and formatted the data, performed some calculations, and identified trends as well as relationships between each variable.

# 4.1 User Type Distribution by Tracker-Wear 
# 4.2 Look Deep into Activity 
# 4.2.1 Average activity miniutes by day of week 
# 4.2.2 User Type Distribution by total steps 

### Data Visualization 

Sleep [Average Hours of Sleep per day of week ]  
2. Total Minutes of Sleep Vs Sendentary Minutes x4 
3. Total Minutes of Sleep vc Total Sleep 
4. How many minutes on average it takes to fall asleep by day of week 
5. How many minutes to fall asleep 

Calories 
1. average calories burned per day of the week 
2. Calories burned vs Sedentary Minutes (x4) 
3. Calories Burned vs Step taken 
4. calories burned vs total distance (x4) 

Activity 
1. Average Steps taken per day of the week 
2. Average Distance(in Kilometer) per day of the week 
3. Percentage of Time Spent in different levels of activity across entire study 




#### Findings

-	User experience of bellabeat product is positive as 90% of existing users wear for more than 21 days in a month.
-	90% users wear for more than 21 days in a month. 
-	On average, each user spends half their day on sedentary activities and less than 2 hours altogether on very active and fairly active activities (1 hour 12 mins).
-	Evening period, 5pm to 7pm, has the highest average steps count throughout a day followed by afternoon to noon period, 12pm to 2pm, which has the second highest count. 
-	Users are less likely to wear during sleep, where only 10 users, out of 24 users, have worn more than 15 nights. 
-	There is a positive correlation between activity level and calories burned. The more activity you are, the more calories you burn   


#### Recommendations 

The insufficient data has resulted less credibility in our finding. 
Based on the findings, I recommend adding notification system to the products,  promoting point-award incentive system and marketing campaign for white-collar group. 

1. Add Notification System to products/apps. For users who have not reached the daily minimum step count or been on sedentary activities continually, products/apps will notify either through reminder notification or vibration from smart products. 

2. Promote point-award incentive system. Based on our analysis, we found that 90% users wear fitbit regularly. Users who completing bellabeat exercise weekly challenge can redeem points on products/memberships. Those points can use on exchanging/discount on bellabeat new products. 

3. Marketing Campaign pinpointing the perks of having Health Assitant and targeting white-collar worker. 
Based on our findings, we observed the users in our study, on average spend 12 hours on sedentary activity and they are most active in evening and afternoon. Plus, 90% users wear more than 21 days in a month. This group of people tend to lose track of time due to their job nature and less-physical consuming activity, so the marketing content could cater and tailor for them. 


